Slurm to htcondor (#34)
osg-htc/user-documentation: documentation/htc_workloads/submitting_workloads/Slurm_to_HTCondor.md

---
ospool:
  path: htc_workloads/submitting_workloads/Slurm_to_HTCondor.md
---

Convert your workflow from Slurm to HTCondor
============================================

# Introduction

[Slurm](https://slurm.schedmd.com/documentation.html) is one of the most popular workload manager for high performance computing (HPC) system while HTCondor

> is the scheduler program developed for high throughput computing (HTC) environment. Both being part of the scheduler/workload manager program, they do have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is the scheduler program developed for high throughput computing (HTC) environment. Both being implementations of scheduler/workload managers, they do have
```

# Common Diffences between Slurm and HTCondor
- Slurm is suitable to schedule multi-core jobs with high degree of parallelism while not good at handling large quantity of jobs.
- HTCondor is good at dealing with **large quantity** of single core jobs.
- Slurm requires a **shared file system** to operate, HTCondor does not.
- Slurm script has a **certain order**- all the requirements on the top then the code execution step; HTCondor script does not have any order. The only requirement is that it ends with the **queue** statement.
- Every requirement line in the Slurm script starts with **#SBATCH**. In HTCondor only the system requirements (RAM, Cores, Disk space) line starts with **request_**
- The **queue** statement in HTCondor can be modified (include variables) to make it behave like an array job in Slurm.
- Basic job submission and queue checking command starts with a **condor_** prefix in HTCondor. Slurm does not have a specific prefix for this regard.
- HTCondor can have thousands of jobs **running within minutes**. The wait time in the queue for many Slurm jobs is usually much longer.

> - Slurm is good for managing MPI jobs; HTCondor is efficient in running MPI jobs. The parallelization using HTCondor can be achevied without using any specific tools.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Slurm is good for managing MPI jobs; HTCondor is efficient in running HTC jobs. The parallelization using HTCondor can be achieved without using any specific tools, but requires codes to be pleasantly parallel (no inter-node communication)
```

To know more about Slurm please visit their [website](https://slurm.schedmd.com/documentation.html) and for HTCondor take a look at the HTCondor [manual page](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users-manual/index.html)
Please visit our other guides-especially the [easily submit multiple job page](../submit-multiple-jobs.md) to know more about the modularity of HTCondor scripts.

# General considerations about HTCondor in OSPool
- HTCondor on **OSPool** does not have a **module** and a **shared file system**. User needs to identify every component of their jobs and transfer them from their access point to the execute node. The slides of the [new user training](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1z-f81xtk_ZXeJcA1kX60JoScXdGfe-xgsB9g5YemrqI/edit#slide=id.g10c0fd09133_0_7) contians more detils about it.
- Instead of relying on modules, please use the [different conatiners](../../using_software/available-containers-list.md) available on the OSPool or make your own [container](../../using_software/containers-singularity.md). Please remember the faciliation team is here to [support you](../../../support_and_training/support/getting-help-from-RCFs.md).

> - By default the [wall time limit](../../workload_planning/jobdurationcategory.md) set on HTCondor jobs are 20 hours on the OSPool.

Reviewer: As we talked about during the hackathon, an example here would be helpful. Just a simple Slurm job and then the same code running as a HTCondor job.
